Crashing Programs
    In this module, you’ll get introduced to the age old question, “Why has my program crashed?” You’ll learn how to troubleshoot system crashes and application crashes, what tools can be used to help identify the cause of the crash, and what log files to look at in order to find what might have gone wrong. Next, you’ll dive into investigating why code crashes, and what you can do to prevent that from happening. Then, you’ll explore what happens when an unhandled error occurs and throws an exception. You’ll learn about the printf debugging technique, which will help you identify these errors and exceptions. Finally, you’ll explore the concept of handling crashes and incidents at a much larger scale. You’ll delve into a scenario where a large eCommerce site will throw an error 20% of the time. Once that issue has been fixed, you’ll understand the importance of communication and documentation during these incidents, and how writing a post mortem can prevent issues from happening again.

Learning Objectives
    Understand the difference between system and application crashes
    Utilize skills in debugging and log reading to identify these crashes
    Understand the different types of code crashes and be able to address invalid memory errors
    Utilize techniques, like printf debugging, to troubleshoot and resolve unhandled errors and exceptions
    Understand how communication and documentation during an outage or error is critical
    Understand what a postmortem is and what should be included in 


Why Programs Crash?
    Unhandeled exception, hardware faults etc.

    Checking Status
        Linux: Error logs
        Window: Evenet Viewer
    Checking Info
        Strace(Linux)
        Process Monitor(Window)


To find the root cause of a crashing application will want to look at all available logs figure out what changed trace the system or library calls the program makes and create the smallest possible reproduction case.

Wrapper:
    A wrapper is a function or program that provides a compatibility layer between two functions or programs.  

WatchDog:
     A watchdog is one workaround, as it will check whether a program is running and start it again if it stops. Using a container would be a better workaround, though.  


XML Format
    XML is a data format that is applicable to data input and output of a program

Container
    A container allows the application to run in its own environment without interfering with the rest of the system.  



Internal Server Error

The /etc directory will contain the application folder that stores configuration files.  

Accessing invalid memory(Segmentation Fault)

Pointers (Store memory variables)

Undefined Behaviour

Valgrind, Dr.memory.

PBD file
    A PBD file is used to generate debugging symbols using Microsoft compilers.  

Segfaults
    Segfaults is short for Segmentation Fault, which occurs when invalid memory is being accessed.  

Valgrind
    Valgrind can assist in finding out if invalid operations are occurring in a program running on a Linux or macOS system.  

Dr. Memory
    Dr. Memory can assist in finding out if invalid operations are occurring in a program running on Windows or Linux.  


Logging module
The logging module sets debug messages to show up when the code fails. 


Backtrace
The backtrace command can be used to show a summary of the function calls that were used to the point where the failure occurs.


gdb, pdb3(debuggers)

Off-by-one bug
 The Off-by-one bug, often abbreviated as OB1, frequently happens in computer programming when an iterative process iterates one time too many or too little.


 Crash in Complex system

    Server Crashing
        Removing the server from the pool will provide full service to users from the remaining web servers  

    Communications lead
        Communications lead needs to know what's going on and provide timely updates on the current state and how long until the problem's resolved.

        The communications lead provides timely updates on the incident and answers questions from users.  


    Postmortems
        Postmortems are documents that describe details of incidence to help us learn from our mistakes.
